docs(contributing): basic layout (#199)
ansys/pyworkbench: doc/source/contribute/documentarian.rst

> Contributing as a documentarian
> ###############################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contribute as a documentarian
#############################
```

> Contributing as a documentarian
> ###############################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contribute as a documentarian
#############################
```

.. grid:: 1 1 3 3

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`pencil` Write documentation
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: write-documentation
        :link-type: ref

        Learn how to get started, use, and contribute to the project.

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`laptop-code` Add a new example
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: write-examples
        :link-type: ref

        Write a new example to showcase the capabilities of PyWorkbench.

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`file-code` Build the documentation
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: build-documentation
        :link-type: ref

        Render the documentation to see your changes reflected.

.. _write-documentation:

Write documentation
===================

`Sphinx`_ is the tool used to generate PyWorkbench documentation. You write most of the content
in `ReStructuredText`_ files. However, some of the content, like the

> :ref:`examples <Examples>`, use a mix of `Markdown`_ and Python. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`examples <Examples>`, use a mix of `Markdown`_ and Python files. If
```

you are interested in writing examples, see :ref:`writing examples <write-examples>`.

The documentation is located in the ``doc/source`` directory. The landing page
is declared in the ``doc/source/index.rst`` file. The subdirectories contain
the pages of different documentation sections. Finally, the
``doc/source/_static/`` folder contains various assets like images, and CSS
files.

The layout of the ``doc/source`` directory is reflected in the URLs of the
online documentation pages. For example, the

> ``doc/source/contribute/documentarian.rst``file renders as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``doc/source/contribute/documentarian.rst`` file renders as
```

``https://workbench.docs.pyansys.com/contribute/documentarian`` URL.

> Thus, if you create a file, it important to follow these rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, if you create a file, it is important to follow these rules:
```

- Use lowercase letters for file and directory names.
- Use short and descriptive names.
- Use hyphens to separate words.
- Play smart with the hierarchy of the files and directories.

You must include all files in a table of contents. No orphan files are

> permitted. If a file is not included in the table of contents, Sphinx raises a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not include a file in the table of contents, Sphinx raises a
```

Contributing as a documentarian
###############################

.. grid:: 1 1 3 3

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`pencil` Write documentation
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: write-documentation
        :link-type: ref

>         Explain how to get started, use, and contribute to the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Learn how to get started, use, and contribute to the project.
```

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`laptop-code` Add a new example
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: write-examples
        :link-type: ref

>         Showcase the capabilities of PyWorkbench by adding a new example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Write a new example to showcase the capabilities of PyWorkbench.
```

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`file-code` Build the documentation
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: build-documentation
        :link-type: ref

        Render the documentation to see your changes reflected.

.. _write-documentation:

Write documentation
===================

> The documentation generator used in PyWorkbench is `Sphinx`_. Most of the documents
> are written in `reStructuredText`_. Some parts of the documentation, like the
> :ref:`examples <Examples>`, use mix of `markdown`_ and Python. If
> you are interested in writing examples, see the :ref:`writing examples <write-examples>`
> section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Sphinx`_ is the tool used to generate PyWorkbench documentation. You write most of the content
in `reStructuredText`_ files. However, some of the content, like the
:ref:`examples <Examples>`, use a mix of `Markdown`_ and Python. If
you are interested in writing examples, see :ref:`writing examples <write-examples>`.
```

The documentation is located in the ``doc/source`` directory. The landing page
is declared in the ``doc/source/index.rst`` file. The rest of the files contain
the main pages of different sections of the documentation. Finally, the
``doc/source/_static/`` folder contains various assets like images, and CSS
files.

> The layout of the ``doc/source`` directory is reflected in the slug of the
> online documentation. For example, the
> ``doc/source/contribute/documentarian.rst`` renders as
> ``https://workbench.docs.pyansys.com/contribute/documentarian``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The layout of the ``doc/source`` directory is reflected in the URLs of the
online documentation pages. For example, the
``doc/source/contribute/documentarian.rst``file renders as
``https://workbench.docs.pyansys.com/contribute/documentarian`` URL.
```
I have never heard the term "slug" used in this way, which is why I'm suggested an edit.

> Thus, if you create a new file, it important to follow these rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, if you create a file, it important to follow these rules:
```

> - Use lowercase letters for file and directory names
> - Use short and descriptive names
> - Use hyphens to separate words
> - Play smart with the hierarchy of the files and directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use lowercase letters for file and directory names.
- Use short and descriptive names.
- Use hyphens to separate words.
- Play smart with the hierarchy of the files and directories.
```
Is "Play smart" perhaps to colloquial? Should we say "Carefully organize the hierarchy of the files and directories."

> All files need to be included in a table of contents. No dangling files are
> permitted. If a file is not included in the table of contents, Sphinx raises a
> warning that makes the build to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must include all files in a table of contents. No orphan files are
permitted. If a file is not included in the table of contents, Sphinx raises a
warning that causes the build to fail.
```
I know we want to steer away from using ``index.rst`` files for other than the main landing page. I'm just wondering if this needs to be stated, especially given that so many libraries use this name, making the "table of contents" reference used here unfamiliar?

A table of contents can be declared using a directive like this:

.. code-block:: rst

    .. toctree::
        :hidden:
        :maxdepth: 3

        path-to-file-A
        path-to-file-B
        path-to-file-C
        ...

The path to the file is relative to the directory where the table of contents
is declared.

.. _write-examples:

Write a new example
===================

The :ref:`examples <Examples>` section of the documentation showcases different
capabilities of PyWorkbench. Each example is a standalone Python script. Despite

> being ``*.py`` files, they are written in a mix of `markdown`_ and Python. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
being PY files, they are written in a mix of `Markdown`_ and Python. This
```
When a file is referred to generically, use capital letters rather than something like ``*.py`` or ``*.bat``. Markdown is a language and thus a proper noun.

is possible thanks to the `myst-parser`_ Sphinx extension. In addition, these
Python files can be opened as Jupyter Notebooks thanks to the `jupytext`_
extension.

> Documentarians writing new examples are encouraged to open a new Jupyter Lab

Reviewer: I doubt a documentarian (and am speaking for even myself) will know how to open a new Jupyter Lab session and write the example as a Jupyter Notebook. I feel like only a developer will know how to do this.

Author: That's a good point. I will include the proper command in Tox and document it in here.

session and write the example as a Jupyter Notebook. This way, the

> documentarian can test the code and see the output in real-time. The created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documentarian can test the code and see the output in real time. The created
```
Only hypenate real time when used as a compound adjective, such as "A real-time scenario ...."

Jupyter Notebook gets stored as a Python file automatically.

Note that the examples are contained in its own repository, which you can find
in `PyWorkbench examples repository`_.

Finally, here are some tips for writing examples:

- Start the example with an explanation of the main topic. For example, if you
  are discussing a certain orbital maneuver, explain what that maneuver
  entails. Similarly, if an example is centered around satellite coverage,
  provide an explanation of what coverage is. Try to use as many relevant

>   keywords as possible in this section to optimize for Search Engine
>   Optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  keywords as possible in this section for search engine
  optimization.
```

- The second section of the example must be a problem statement. This statement
  must include all of the parameters needed in the example, as well as a
  description of what the example aims to determine. Write this section in an
  imperative form.

> - Include an explanation with each code cell. In a Jupyter notebook, this
>   entails adding a markdown cell before each code cell. The explanations should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Include an explanation with each code cell. In a Jupyter Notebook, this
  entails adding a Markdown cell before each code cell. The explanations should
```

  be included before, not after, the corresponding code.

.. _build-documentation:

Build the documentation
=======================

> `Tox`_ is used for automating the build of the documentation. There are
> different environments for cleaning the build, and building the documentation
> in different formats such as HTML. , and running the tests. The following
> environments are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Tox`_ is used for automating the build of the documentation. There are
different environments for cleaning the build, building the documentation
in different formats such as HTML, and running the tests.
```
